# Urbanixm Content Classifiers

This repository contains code used to train and deplpoy content classifiers
used in [Urbanixm](https://www.urbanixm.com/) — the urban knowledge discovery engine.

At Urbanixm we collect information from the Web with relation to urbanism and curate
it with our AI driven technology.
Content classification is one of the steps we use to automate our content curation pipeline.

We curate quotes from collected websites along three dimensions:

* Quote type: What is the type of information discussed in the quote?
* Quote tone: How is that information disseminated?
* Quote topics: Which urbanism topics are discussed in the quote?

Example: The following quote

> The introduction of 20mph speed limit for 11% of the roads in London was according
> to the British Medical Journal associated with a 4% reduction in road casualties.

is curated with the following labels:

* Quote type: policy, impact
* Quote tone: claim
* Quote topics: speed-limit, traffic-casualties

Using the code in this repository we we train a model for each or the curation dimensions.
Each model can assign to a given piece of text zero or more curation labels.

We use our own proprietary data to train our models, but for demonstration purposes we used
a GenAI engine to create a fake data-set for training quote type classification.


## Initial setup

```
python3.12 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -e .
```

## Test

The unit tests will train a classifier using demo data.

```
pytest
```

Note that the data used in the tests is not actual set of curated quotes from the web, 
but a demo dataset generated by GenAI.


## Model training

```
python urbanixm_content_classifier/quote_classifier.py --data_dir LOCATON_OF_TRAINING_DATA --objective_type CLASSIFICATION_OBJECTIVE
```
